Some key questions about zines that your resource should ultimately help students understand:

What is a zine? Where do they come from? What’s their history as a genre of writing? 

A zine is a small, self-published magazine that is produced by one or many people and then distributed.  
The topics of zines can vary from reciepes, fictional stories, politcs, culture, poetry to personal experiences, etc. 
Zines include text and images that are reproduced by a photocopier.
Through the interest of sci-fi fans in the 1930s, zines were created.  Zine is also short for "magazine".

Why do people compose/write zines? 

Zines are an expression of art for those who compose or write zines.  It is away to for the writer and reader to connect 
through subject matter.

Why might they be important or matter as genre of writing?

It provides a voice for and another means to commuincate and create a community through thoughts and expressions for others 
who may share similar views or are interested
in the context.

What can zines teach us about key concepts in composition like purpose, writer, audience, context, and medium?

It gives a diverse population a voice and provides a safe space for everyone, unlike mainstream social media and other platforms/mediums...
Topics that are ignored can be written about and find its ways into the hands of people who might find interest
The topics in a zine are vast and unlimitied.  There are no boudaries and nothing is off-limits.

It is often said that zines have no rules, and this is true to a point. But zines do follow certain conventions (Links to an external site.) or norms in their style, content and design. In other words -- zines are recognizable as kind or genre of writing. What are these conventions?
In making your own zine…

What is it’s purpose? How did you decide this?



Who is the audience for your zine? How did this sense of audience inform the choices you made in terms of content and style?



What conventions of zines did you adopt in your work? Which did you ignore or modify? Why?
